## Across the Fields to Sutton Cheney (March)

To go to sleep during a cheerless winter and then suddenly to wake up with the
warmth of spring sunshine, is a pleasure denied to all but hibernating animals.
But the greatest joy of life must surely be the experience of the first few days
of spring after enduring the trials of a more than usually trying winter.

On Sunday morning last the writer rose with the birds. A blue cloudless sky and
scarcely a breeze to temper the sun's genial warmth. A brave good morning. None
could be better to search out with the help of an ordnance map some of the
disappearing footpaths that once linked up hamlet and town all over the country
side.

There are several ways of reaching the little village of Sutton from Hinckley
without using the main roads. The nearest would be to go by Middlefield Lane
past Cold Comfort Farm to Rogues Lane, then take to the fields by a footpath
that commences at the next hedgerow across the lane in the direction of Stoke
Golding. On Sunday morning I chose to take a 'bus to the corner of Barwell Lane
and take to the fields just before reaching Abraham's Bridge at the lowest part
of the Stapleton Road. The stile is easily found on the left hand side some 20
yards before reaching the foot of the hill. The path is well worn, and even as I
reached it one or two men with dogs got over the stile, crossed the road, and
made their way in the direction of Barwell by a path on the other side. We have
doubtless to thank this gentleman with a dog for so far preserving our footpaths
for posterity. He is not always a poacher, more often he is a keen lover of
nature with the wanderlust of his ancestors, enjoying the country ramble almost
as much as he knows that his dog does. Two old stockingers whom I know are
typical of their class. Although they are not primed with survey maps they
probably know every footpath around Hinckley within a radius of five or six
miles, and any fine day when work is slack you may meet them miles off the
beaten track enjoying the delights of the fields and hedgerows. Here's luck to
them at their journey's end. By the way, they suggested these little guides to
me some years ago. They need little guiding, but they may interest them.

To commence our walk. The path lies across low lying meadow land—the grass is
dry and colourless. "February fill-dike" this year has quite belied its
name—little rain has fallen for weeks. After a spell of sunshine and dry
easterly winds, hardly a blade of green grass is to be seen. Occasional patches
of blackened soil mark where a fire has spread over the fields, converting the
coarse tufts into a useful dressing, an unsightly scar soon to disappear in a
fresh mantle of green. On the right and parallel with our path runs the River
Tweed which takes its rise near Frog Island, Barwell. It is here quite a merry,
swift running stream. Up to now it has kept to almost straight courses, but here
it meanders in and out in a most inconsequential manner.

It is interesting to note how the features of a streamlet are an exact miniature
of a mighty river. Here a series of horse-shoe bends are a tiny replica of the
Wye at Symonds Yat. On the inside of the bend, the bank drops sheer down to the
water's edge like a miniature cliff; and on the outside of the sweep, the bank
slopes down in a gentle gradient or in shallow terraces with a beach of sand or
gravel.

At the third field from the road we cross a little tributary by a railway
sleeper bridge. A group of red and pollarded willows again attract one to the
banks of the stream. A snipe gets up, and uttering a sharp note of alarm, makes
off with its peculiar low scudding flight across the fields. Sticklebacks dart
to and fro' in the stream. (Further on its course, in the direction of Shenton,
the stream is well stocked with grayling.) Caddis worms in their pebble suit of
armour crawl over the stream bed, and in the shallows, water plants are
beginning to climb to the surface and the sun. Among the more vigorous is the
water cress and one of a big family of veronicas, the little water blue eye with
the big name of _beccabunga_.

In the sixth field from the road the path runs along the south side of a
hedgerow. Although the snow-drifts have not entirely gone from the shade, the
banks here are warming under the sunshine and all the big family of hedgerow
plants are bursting into life again. Clusters of little annual seedlings are
peeping through. Herbaceous plants are unfolding their radical leaves. Crepis
and thistle dot the banks with bright green and variegated rosettes. We pass
over a field of a semi-bogland nature. Before the fields were systematically
drained, there was a great deal of similar land. Juncus and sedge betray the
sodden condition of the subsoil.

On the higher land towards Stapleton is the supposed site of the encampment of
Richard III on the eve of the battle of Bosworth Field. Through this valley,
watered by the Tweed, his ill fated troops moved towards Redmore.

At the ninth field a clump of willows and alder mark the place where the Tweed
is joined by a stream that takes its rise in Barwell Lane, Hinckley. Here we
turn sharp right, cross two fields of turf land to Harper's Hill on the Tweed,
ascend to Dadlington road. On reaching this bridle road a stile will be seen
immediately opposite. The path here is very indistinct. Sheep tracks are more
conspicuous, but follow the Electric Power Company's wires across four open
fields to the bottom of the valley. As we descend the slope, to the left we
survey the field of Bosworth. The Sutton fields to the left we survey the field
of Bosworth. The Sutton fields to the left we survey the field of Bosworth which
the battle surged away to the left we survey the field of Bosworth which the
battle surged Ambien woods mark the spot around which the battle surged away to
the left we survey the field of Bosworth which the battle surged Ambien woods
mark the spot around which the stone pyramid over the well where King Dick is
said to have drank "while hotly pressed for life and crown."

At the bottom of the valley we cross the Sence Brook. This joins the Tweed near
the Ashby Canal. They in turn flow into the Anker, the Anker into the Tame, the
Tame into the Trent, the Trent into the Humber and so to the sea. One wonders
how long the waters of this little brook would take to reach the ocean.

In crossing the field before the brook is reached bear to the left. A single
plank now does duty for a bridge. After crossing the brook the path cuts off the
corner of a long narrow field stretching away from you. Jump a narrow brook on
the left and proceed in a north westerly direction across a J-shaped meadow to a
stile which will be seen to your left half-way up the field. It is necessary
here to cross a ploughed field, but you won't mind this if you are equipped for
the journey. Two more fields of grass land, keeping a plantation of spruce or
fir on the right, brings you to a narrow lane leading into the village of Sutton
Cheney. In the last field are hydrant posts indicating the line of the
Snarestone water main to Hinckley.

Some hundred yards or more on the east side of the lane we have now entered, is
a small square field known as Dicken's Nook. It was here that King Richard was
said to have harangued his troops on the eve of the battle. A much more likely
spot for such a purpose is the field nearer the village which Mr. Thompson, of
Sutton Hall, tells me is described as Dicken's Close. In this field is a deep
hollow intersected by a spring, and on the westerly slopes very extensive
earthworks. But it is not at all likely that these earthworks were thrown up by
King Richard's army.

The mounds are approached by two vallums or hollow ways quite distinct from a
moat. The presence of a spring and numerous pot boilers strewn round the site,
suggest an early occupation site, and its close proximity to a Bronze Age
Tumulus or burial place gives us a probable date. The tumulus can be seen on the
Bosworth side of the village just past the church. It was partially excavated by
Sir John Evans when residing at Bosworth.

Dickens is another name for devil, and I should infer that Dickens' Nook was
believed to be haunted by his satanic majesty long before the battle of
Bosworth.

Sutton Cheney derives the latter part of its name from a rich farmer named
Chainell who, Nicholls tells us, held lands here as tenant of the Abbey of
Croyland. The church is not an inspiring edifice although not without interest.
Within is an alabaster tomb of a knight in armour. The inscription reads:

"Heere lyeth interred the body of Sir William Roberts, knight, who in his life
time being devoted to hospitality and charity among other remarkable works
erected out of a pious mind an hospitale for sixe poor men adjoyneing to this
Church-yard, and endowed it with 20 pound land yearly for their maintenance for
ever."

Thomas Simpson, the prodigy of Market Bosworth, lies buried in the churchyard
"after rending asunder the fetters of indigence" he became an eminent
mathematician and a Fellow of the Royal Society. In his young days he took to
fortune telling and frightened a poor Nuneaton widow out of her wits.

Before leaving the village a glance at the old Hall would be worth while. It is
a fine old bit of Jacobean work built of red brick with stone mullions and
facings. A stone panel with date and initials on the front informs us that it
was built by William Roberts and his wife in 1613.

From Sutton Cheney the energetic can walk into Bosworth along the fringe of the
park, returning by 'bus or train.

An alternative would be to return over the fields to Stapleton by a footpath
that follows the route of an old bridle road, a continuation in almost a
straight line of the lane by which we came into the village of Sutton. This
brings us out at the Manor Farm, Stapleton.

By this path we pass away on the right an old farm house called Hangman's Hall.
The origin of the name I have been unable to trace.

The late Mr. Thomas Harrold, whose memories of Hinckley and District went back
to the first half of the last century, could not suggest an explanation, but he
stated that it was supposed to be haunted.

A number of men went over from Hinckley one night to lay the ghost. A wag wrote
some doggerel verses in the vernacular describing their adventures, one stanza
ran:

> "A sudden crash made us all start<br>
> And struck our earholes to the heart,"

Not a choice literary effort, but typical of a good deal written in those days.
